rippled 2.3.0 release notes (#2862)
XRPLF/xrpl-dev-portal: blog/2024/rippled-2.3.0.md

---
category: 2024

> date: 2024-12-02

Reviewer: ```suggestion
date: 2024-11-25
```

seo:
    title: Introducing XRP Ledger version 2.3.0
    description: rippled version 2.3.0 is now available. This version introduces new features and stability fixes.
labels:
    - rippled Release Notes
markdown:
    editPage:
        hide: true
---
# Introducing XRP Ledger version 2.3.0

> Version 2.3.0 of `rippled`, the reference server implementation of the XRP Ledger protocol, is now available. This release includes 8 new amendments, including Multi-Purpose Tokens, Credentials, Clawback support for AMMs, and the ability to make offers as part of minting NFTs. Additionally, this release includes important fixes for stability, so server operators are encouraged to upgrade as soon as possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Version 2.3.0 of `rippled`, the reference server implementation of the XRP Ledger protocol, is now available. This release includes 8 new amendments, including Multi-Purpose Tokens (MPTs), Credentials, Clawback support for AMMs, and the ability to make offers as part of minting NFTs. Additionally, this release includes important fixes for stability, so server operators are encouraged to upgrade as soon as possible.
```

## Action Required

If you run an XRP Ledger server, upgrade to version 2.3.0 as soon as possible to ensure service continuity.

> Additionally, new amendments are now open for voting according to the XRP Ledger's [amendment process](https://xrpl.org/amendments.html), which enables protocol changes following two weeks of >80% support from trusted validators. The exact time that protocol changes take effect depends on the voting decisions of the decentralized network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, new amendments are now open for voting according to the XRP Ledger's [amendment process](../../docs/concepts/networks-and-servers/amendments.md), which enables protocol changes following two weeks of >80% support from trusted validators. The exact time that protocol changes take effect depends on the voting decisions of the decentralized network.
```

## Install / Upgrade

On supported platforms, see the [instructions on installing or updating `rippled`](../../docs/infrastructure/installation/index.md).

| Package | SHA-256 |
|:--------|:--------|
| [RPM for Red Hat / CentOS (x86-64)](https://repos.ripple.com/repos/rippled-rpm/stable/rippled-2.3.0-1.el7.x86_64.rpm) | `TODO` |
| [DEB for Ubuntu / Debian (x86-64)](https://repos.ripple.com/repos/rippled-deb/pool/stable/rippled_2.3.0-1_amd64.deb) | `TODO` |
| [Portable Builds (Linux x86-64)](https://github.com/XRPLF/rippled-portable-builds) | (Use signature verification) |

For other platforms, please [build from source](https://github.com/ripple/rippled/tree/master/Builds). The most recent commit in the git log should be the change setting the version:

```text
TODO
```

## Full Changelog

### Amendments

The following amendments are open for voting with this release:

> - **XLS-70 Credentials** - Users can issue Credentials on the ledger and use Credentials to pre-approve incoming payments when using Deposit Authorization instead of individually approving payers. ([#5103](https://github.com/XRPLF/rippled/pull/5103))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **XLS-70 Credentials** - Introduces the ability to issue Credentials on the ledger and use these Credentials to pre-approve incoming payments when using Deposit Authorization instead of individually approving payers. ([#5103](https://github.com/XRPLF/rippled/pull/5103))
```

    - related fix: #5189 (https://github.com/XRPLF/rippled/pull/5189)

> - **XLS-33 Multi-Purpose Tokens** - A new type of fungible token optimized for institutional DeFi including stablecoins. ([#5143](https://github.com/XRPLF/rippled/pull/5143))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **XLS-33 Multi-Purpose Tokens** - Introduces a new type of fungible token optimized for institutional DeFi including stablecoins. ([#5143](https://github.com/XRPLF/rippled/pull/5143))
```

- **fixAMMv1_2** - Fixes two bugs in Automated Market Maker (AMM) transaction processing. ([#5176](https://github.com/XRPLF/rippled/pull/5176))
- **fixNFTokenPageLinks** - Fixes a bug that can cause NFT directories to have missing links, and introduces a transaction to repair corrupted ledger state. ([#4945](https://github.com/XRPLF/rippled/pull/4945))
- **fixEnforceNFTokenTrustline** - Fixes two bugs in the interaction between NFT offers and trust lines. ([#4946](https://github.com/XRPLF/rippled/pull/4946))
- **fixInnerObjTemplate2** - Standardizes the way inner objects are enforced across all transaction and ledger data. ([#5047](https://github.com/XRPLF/rippled/pull/5047))

The following amendment is partially implemented but not open for voting:

- **InvariantsV1_1** - Adds new invariants to ensure transactions process as intended, starting with an invariant to ensure that ledger entries owned by an account are deleted when the account is deleted. ([#4663](https://github.com/XRPLF/rippled/pull/4663))

### New Features

- Allow configuration of SQLite database page size. ([#5135](https://github.com/XRPLF/rippled/pull/5135), [#5140](https://github.com/XRPLF/rippled/pull/5140))

> - In the `libxrpl` C++ library, provide a list of known amendments. ([#5026](https://github.com/XRPLF/rippled/pull/5026)) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- List known amendments in the `libxrpl` C++ library. ([#5026](https://github.com/XRPLF/rippled/pull/5026)) 
```

### Deprecations

- History Shards are removed. ([#5066](https://github.com/XRPLF/rippled/pull/5066))
- Reporting mode is removed. ([#5092](https://github.com/XRPLF/rippled/pull/5092))

> For users wanting to store more ledger history, it is recommended to run a Clio server instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to store more ledger history, it is recommended that you run a Clio server instead.
```
